= Chirpy

== Description

Chirpy is a simple Twitter client for Ruby, written using Hpricot
and RestClient.

* Github: http://github.com/ashrewdmint/chirpy
* Documentation: http://ashrewdmint.com/code/chirpy

== Features

* Works with almost every Twitter API method, including search,
  status updates, direct messaging, and more!
* Uses Hpricot for XML parsing.

== Caveats

* Doesn't support OAuth yet.
* Doesn't support file uploading methods (+profile_image_update+
  and +profile_background_image_update+) yet.

== Installation

  sudo gem install chirpy

== Usage

Everything Chirpy returns is a Hpricot object, which lets you
easily search through XML soup and find what you need. You
should familiarize yourself with Hpricot first:
http://wiki.github.com/why/hpricot

=== Examples

Let's say you want to see the public timeline:

  Chirpy.public_timeline.search('text').each do |text|
    puts text.inner_html
  end
  
That was easy! Note that everything after <tt>.public_timeline</tt> was just Hpricot magic.

But what if I want to search Twitter? That's simple, too:

  Chirpy.search('Murray Rothbard').search('content').each do |text|
    puts text.inner_html
  end
  
Well, that was certainly painless. Unfortunately, since the search method parses an RSS feed, there's a lot of entities and links making a mess of the text. Chirpy has a method to handle annoyances like that:

  puts Chirpy.remove_crap(text.inner_html)

But I'm getting ahead of myself. What if you want to post a new tweet?

  chirpy = Chirpy.new('username', 'password')
  chirpy.update_status("I'm posting this with Chirpy!")

...or view a list of your friends?

  chirpy.friends.search('name').each do |name|
    puts name.inner_html + ' is a horrible person'
  end

...or look at peoples' favorite tweets?

  chirpy.favorites # Your own favorites
  chirpy.favorites('ashrewdmint') # My favorites!

But what if something goes wrong? Well, it's easy to check for an error:

  response = Chirpy.public_timeline
  
  if response.ok?
    # Do something awesome
  else
    puts response.status.inspect
  end

If anything goes wrong, you can find error details in the status attribute. Just so you know, Chirpy adds two new attributes to the Hpricot response object: status and url.

One last thing: some Twitter methods let you pass some extra GET parameters, like <tt>page</tt> or <tt>since_id</tt>. It's easy to do this with Chirpy, just pass those arguments in a hash:

  chirpy.friends_timeline :page => 3

Nifty, eh? Good luck, and enjoy!

== Special thanks & credits

* Thanks to Why The Lucky Stiff for making Hpricot
* Thanks to Adam Wiggins for making RestClient
* Written by Andrew Smith [andrew.caleb.smith@gmail.com] [@ashrewdmint]

== License

Released under the MIT license. Mayest thou go forth and redistributeth to thine heart's content.
